Datadog MCP Server / JetBrains IDEs (#35117)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/bits_ai/mcp_server/setup.md

{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "JetBrains IDEs" %}}

JetBrains offers the [Junie][1] and [AI Assistant][2] plugins for their range of IDEs. As an alternative (or in addition to) these plugins many developers use an agent CLI, such as Claude Code or Codex, alongside their IDE. The sections below describe how to configure the Datadog MCP Server for use by these AI tools.

#### Junie

To configure the Datadog MCP Server with Junie, in the IDE **Settings** go to `Tools > Junie > MCP Settings` and add:

<pre><code>{
  "mcpServers": {
    "datadog": {
      "type": "http",
      "url": "{{< region-param key="mcp_server_endpoint" >}}"
    }
  }
}
</code></pre>

You will be prompted to login via OAuth. The status indicator in the settings will display a green tick when the connection is successful.

#### AI Assistant

> To configure the Datadog MCP Server with AI Assistant, in the IDE **Settings** go to `Tools > AI Assistant > Model Context Protocol (MCP)` and add:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Datadog MCP Server with AI Assistant, navigate to the IDE settings. Go to **Tools** > **AI Assistant** > **Model Context Protocol (MCP)** and add the following block:
```

<pre><code>{
  "mcpServers": {
    "datadog": {
      "url": "{{< region-param key="mcp_server_endpoint" >}}"
      "headers": {
        "DD_API_KEY": "your API key",
        "DD_APPLICATION_KEY": "your APP key"
      }
    }
  }
}
</code></pre>

> The status indicator in the settings will display a green tick when the connection is successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The status indicator in the settings displays a green tick when the connection is successful.
```
